# Splunk toturial
Splunk is a software technology that uses the data generated by the computer to track, scan, analyze, and visualize it in real-time. It tracks and read store data as indexer events and various types of log files. It enables us to view data in different Dashboard formats.

## Product Categories
* Splunk Enterprise:  It is used by companies which have large IT infrastructure and IT driven business. It helps in gathering and analysing the data from websites, applications, devices and sensors, etc.
* Splunk Cloud:  It is the cloud hosted platform with same features as the enterprise version. It can be availed from Splunk itself or through the AWS cloud platform.
* Splunk Light:  It allows search, report and alert on all the log data in real time from one place. It has limited functionalities and features as compared to the other two versions.

TIP: we use Splunk Enterprise!

## splunk sensor
splunk collect log from diffrent sensor like security device or network device or services,...
* IIS
* wazuh
* nginx
* windows server
* Linux
* Cisco
* mikrotik
* Fortinet

Tip: we install splunk universal forwarder app for remote data collection.

## splunk lisence
for buying splunk lisence we create RFP and estimate EPS and sizing of storage.
* RFP = request for proposal
* ESP = Event per secend

## [Splunk Storage Sizing](https://splunk-sizing.appspot.com/)
Specify the amount of time to retain data for each category. Data will be rolled through each category dependant on its age.

* Hot storage  = NVME,SSD -> 30day
* Warm storage = HDD,SAS 15k  -> 6 mon
* Cold storage = 10k,tape  -> 1 year

## [splunk App](https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/4710/)
splunk developer make app and connect to other IOT, Devices, social media , ... and collect log and create role for analysis data and make a beautiful dashboard.


